### Deus Ex Gameplay Report ###

Eugene Kozhukalo
ek2301@columbia.edu

Deus Ex is an RPG first person shooter game.  Released in 2000, it is truly ahead of its time.  I have played it for over 3 hours, and the featureset is enormous.  Firearms, melee combat, sniping, stealth, lockpicking, hacking, destructible and interactive environments, it's all in just the first mission of the game.  I first played the training missions, which took about 40 minutes.  Then, I was sent to infiltrate the Statue of Liberty captured by terrorists, and interrogate their leader.  Completing this mission took over two and a half hours, and many reloads, even on "easy" difficulty. I am not the worst FPS player, but I have learned quickly that even though the character is some kind of nano-enhanced human, I had a good chance of not surviving a head-on shootout with 2 or 3 basic enemy soldiers.  That is due in large part to the scarcity of ammo, so literally every bullet should hit the target (preferably the head, since both NPC and player's bodies in this game have damage maps).  Once I learned that, I spent a lot of time crouching and sneaking up on enemies.  After I finished the first mission, I was let into the "good guys" HQ base.  There, more information was revealed about the player character and the game plot, which I found very intriguing.  I will certainly play this game more in the future.

One of my favorite moments happened when I shot and missed at an enemy, and he ran away and pushed an alarm button instead of charging at me.  I had it happen more than once, and in every instance I was forced to retreat due to being outnumbered.  This AI behavior was very well implemented, and made me even more careful with placing my shots.  It definitely made the game more challenging and enjoyable than an average FPS.

This game has inspired me because it demonstrated that complexity does not need to be overwhelming to the player.  There is a great number of actions a player can do, however the interface is simple and intuitive, and does not make choosing or performing the actions a burden.  Almost every key is re-mappable.  I was very impressed with the interface design, and would look to this game for inspiration in this area should I ever design a similar game in the future.

The clean and simple interface is also one of the mechanics I would take away from this game for our project.  The less keystrokes the player has to remember, the quicker they can become immersed in the actual game.  Using the mouse to its fullest capabilities (like this game does) is an important step towards a good user interface, and quick player engagement.  In this game, the player can look around, shoot, pick up and throw objects, holster and unholster weapons, cycle through weapons, and use items all with the use of a 3-button mouse with mousewheel.  All the most important game functions are literally at the palm of a player's hand.