Three of us sat down to play. None of us had played before, so we turned to Wikipedia to learn how. We learned that there aren't any rules, but there are some conventions such as each player having five cards and playing and drawing cards on their turn. We were to start off with blank cards, write some stuff on them, and then begin "play". Throughout the game we wrote on some more blank cards, we wound up ignoring some of the cards played such as the "give me all your money" card, and an endgame state was defined by a card which said the first player to get rid of all their cards wins. And we did get a winner.

The lack of rules and structure really made it not much of a game. According to the "rules" I could have made my cards into airplanes and then throw them across the room. It's really more of a five spoons type invent-your-own-game activity then a game itself. Adding in the conventions provides some structure, but I could have have written on a card "I win" and that would have been the end of the game. The pregame time when we were writing our initial cards was my least favorite moment because I felt kind of lost in the open-endedness of what we could write. We wound up with cards calling for physical activities, cards asking questions, cards affecting the rules or affecting other cards etc. Once we started playing our idea of the game started focusing more on the movement and interaction of the cards and cards we added usually had to do with that or some kind of joke, but I still felt like it wasn't very game-like since any of us could have ended it at any time.

I like the competitive element of games and with no firm boundaries to the game, I felt that there was no challenge in out maneuvering the other players within a gamespace. I think the game only works (to a limited extent), when you have some experience and have built up a notion of how the game should operate and what kind of things shouldn't go on cards because they ruin the game. But I like to have these kinds of rules be explicit.

For all our insistence to the contrary, I think most people like having rules and structure in most things in life. I think providing a player with too many choices or with an overly open-ended choice is be frustrating. In our game, this probably means defining a specific set of actions that blobs can make and not some kind of system where players can enter equations or parameters which control a blobs behavior.

One of the cards we played in 1000 Cards restricted turns to five seconds. This clearly increased the tension as we had to scramble to come up with something to do. I think other turn-based thinking games that I've played suffer from having no time limit (e.g.: Carcassonne, Settlers). I'd like to experiment with at least an optional time limit like chess vs speed chess.