### Oregon Trail Gameplay Report ###

Eugene Kozhukalo
ek2301@columbia.edu


Oregon Trail is an historically accurate game of navigating a wagon from Independence, Mississippi to a valley in Oregon that holds promise of great riches and carefree life.  I was able to accomplish the game's goal in about an hour and a half.  The gameplay was rather easy, and it doesn't take much to finish the trip, but the real challenge lies in obtaining the highest score possible, which is affected by the duration of your trip, amount of various supplies left, and people in your party who survive.  I took a long time to get to Oregon, but I was able to keep a lot of my supplies and 4 out of 5 people in my party survived. That earned me a score high enough for a third place on the high score table.  This supports my opinion that the game is rather easy to learn and do fairly well at, since I was able to get a good score on my first try with minimal reading of help documentation.  The most challenging part of the game was dealing with random illnesses and trying to prevent everyone from dying, which I wasn't totally successful at.  However, the cure for all illnesses seems to be food and rest, so if you are attentive enough, keeping everyone alive should not be a problem.

One element of the game that I thought was interesting was the hunting mini-game.  I have mixed feelings about it.  I liked the somewhat realistic experience of aiming and shooting moving targets to acquire food.  It took an element of skill to master, just like hunting does in real life.  However, I disliked that it was generally too easy.  It was counterintuitive in the sense that it did not reward the player for hitting difficult targets, but easy targets provided too much reward.  While it is realistic that small fast animals do now provide as much meat as big slow-moving ones, I feel this could have been one instance where realism is sacrificed to enhance the quality of gameplay.

I was positively inspired by the fact that the game engaged me despite its lack of reliance on graphics.  While the game does have an attractive and easy to use mouse-driven interface, mostly every event in the game is described by a line of text in a scrolling log window.  While it may have been the standard at the time the game was released in the early 90s, today many people would probably find it hard to be engaged by a text-driven game.  However, I was very much interested in finishing the trip, felt disappointment when one of the characters in my party died, and was pleased when I saw what my score was.  It is good to know that it's possible to create a game that is not graphically advanced yet engaging and complex, since we most likely won't have enough time to give high priority to quality of the graphics in our game project.

One of the game mechanics I would like to borrow from this game is the variety of ways to win (in this case, attain a high score).  A player can go for speed and run through the trail, getting points for short travel time, or they might take the time to make sure everyone stays alive, hunt to sell food for money, and get a high score for the amount of supplies and wellbeing of the party at the end.  I feel that the more choices a player has in a game, the more chance there is for them being engaged by it.