#summary Blobs Concept Document

= Blobs Concept Doc =

== Intro ==
Blobs is a turn based strategy game played on a 2D board. 2 players start at opposite ends of the board, each armed with: 2 push blobs; 2 pull blobs; one explosion blob; one death ray blob; and a fully charged Action Point meter. Each turn, a player gets 2 additional action points to their Action Point meter up to a maximum of 10, which they can spend to move blobs or use their abilities.  The amount of points used per action is prorated by the action's strength with points accruing after each turn. Players try to kill each others' blobs using a variety of tactics discussed in further detail below. A player wins when they have destroyed all enemy blobs.

_DB: I'm not sure rollover AP are a good idea. Players might hoard them and after a while have a crazy turn where they can move 100 units. Do we want that?_

_JM: @DB, Sorry, didn't get to clarify.  By "fully recharged" meter i was trying to imply that the meter is capped at the initial value of 10 (or whatever initial value we decide).  So in effect, you only get a portion of your meter back per turn up to a max.  The idea being, if you spend all your points in one shot, you've got to wait some turns until you're back up to full again.  Where i was going with this is that the points seem like they could be an implicit delay mechanism for using powerful actions like a death ray, rather than a fixed number of turns.  For example, maybe we make a death ray use 9 points and only recover 2 points per turn.  (Exact weighting to change i'm sure, but you get the idea.)_

== The Board ==
The board is a square with each side being 20 times the diameter of a starting blob. It does not have any grid visible to the players. The resolution of the board will be granular such that it will seem to players that they can move within a full 360 degree range of motion.  Blobs whose center crosses any edge of the board fall to their doom. Players may utilize the board by creating holes into which enemy blobs may be pushed or pulled.  The board can have features on it as well, such as anchor points (discussed below).

== Movement and Action ==
Each turn, a player gets 10 action points which they can spend to:
 * move blobs,
 * use blob abilities,
 * split blobs, or
 * start or stop a blob's growth.
The cost in AP to move a blob is the distance to move x the size of the blob. Other abilities will have a cost proportional to how powerful the blob or action is.
A player's turn is finished when the player has spent all their AP on blob actions. They can also end it earlier to carry the remaining AP into their next turn. 

When two blobs (from different teams) touch, the larger destroys the smaller. Two blobs from the same team can't overlap. If one is moving towards another, it stops when they collide. 

== Units ==
Blobs have a size. The starting units will be size 1. Every blob grows slightly each turn until they reach a maximum size of 3. When blobs split, each child blob is half the size of the parent blob. Blobs must be at least size 1 to split.

When blob abilities are activated, they stay active for one round (until it's that players turn again).

There are a few kinds of blobs:
 * Pusher blobs
 * Puller blobs
 * Death ray blobs
 * Exploding blobs

*Force Blobs*

When pusher or puller blobs activate their abilities/forces, there is a force exerted in all directions between it and other blobs. For example, if a pusher blob is next to another blob and activates its force, both blobs will be pushed apart from each other. The force and the radius are proportional to the blob's size. The force will more strongly affect closer blobs and smaller blobs. For example, if a large pusher blob has small blob very close by, and the pusher activates its force, both blobs will be pushed apart from each other with the small blog being moved farther. If a blob is on an anchor point, it can't be moved by a blob force, but can still affect other blobs. Blob forces play a central role to the game strategy and can be used to sling blobs across the board, suck in weak enemy blobs, push and pull blobs off board edges (being careful not the sacrifice their own blobs), keep blobs out of an area, push blobs into the line of fire of death rays, etc.

_DB: Radius inversly proportional to size?_

_JM: @DB, I don't know.  I guess i'm worried if biggies having +range +power +eating -speed is making them a fair-enough match for little guys.  I could see the largest puller/pusher hoovering everyone up/pushing everyone off becoming the predominate strategy.  (Which could be fair.  After all, they could just get death ray'ed.)_

*Death Rays*

When a death ray blob is activated, it emits death rays in 4 directions- forwards, backwards, left, and right where forwards is the direction it last moved in or was turned to. Any blob on either team that is touched by a death ray is killed. Death ray blobs must "charge" for a few turns by not moving before their ability can be activated. The distance the rays extend and the charging time is proportional to the size of the blob.

_JM: Actually, i kinda like the idea of range being inversely proportional to size-- this might be a nice way to beef up small blobs by making them both quick and long range.  It could make more of an equality between large and small blobs.  Trying to get enough death rays to sniper frequently from afar, or even guerrilla-like warfare, could be two play strategies by themselves.

*Exploding*

An exploding blob destroys itself, creating a hole in the board that's the size of the blob. Any other blob that falls into the hole dies. If a blob who is at least as big as the hole moves onto it, the blob fills in the hole with itself, disappearing in the process. After that, any blob can once again move over that area.

== Strategies ==
Want to use big blobs for greater killing power vs want to use many blobs for abilities.
...

_EK: I don't see a clear use for smaller blobs yet... perhaps quick death-ray carriers (if we decide that smaller blobs move faster)?  Quick anchor point capturers?  How to defend against a small blob death-ray rush?  Or, how to defend against a huge death-ray blob that is too big for a trap hole and hard to push around in general due to its size? _

_DB: Does this still apply?_

== One Minute of Gameplay ==

  * Players each start with 2 push blobs, 2 pull blobs, one explosion and one death ray blob; we'll call our players Blue and Red.
  * Turns move fairly quickly. Blue starts by setting his death ray blob in motion toward Red's pieces.
  * Red reacts by moving forward his exploding blob and both puller blobs.
  * Blue decides to focus on death ray production, splitting his death ray in half.
  * Red thinks about going for a explode-and-pull strategy; he splits his exploding blob to have a spare, and positions and advances his pullers behind one exploding blob.
  * Blue sees what's happening and, anticipating being sucked into a hole next turn, activates his 2 pushes to repel the incoming threat.  He also activates his death ray on one of Red's pullers, effectively cutting their sucking power in half.
  * ...

_JM: I'm starting to wonder about this minute of gameplay.. it seems like you could take Red and Blue's internal thoughts pretty far.  Like, each bullet could be 4 sentences about current positioning, player choices, their intentions, and then consequences-- kind of directly like Bernie was looking for?_

== Platform ==
Blobs will be a PC game that runs on at least Windows and Linux. If we decide to write it in Java, it should be playable on any J2SE platform.

== Points of Differentiation ==
We don't know of any game like this. It's different than traditional strategy games like Chess and Checkers in that it involves physics simulations so you can't really plan a few moves ahead with precision and it will depend more on intuition and experience.

== Inspirational Sources ==
Elements of Blobs are inspired by a number of games. The turn based strategy play is inspired by Chess, the use of "physical" bodies interacting is from Pool, and the other interesting abilities and visual style is from Worms.

_EK: The old game I was talking about that our game reminded me of is Berzerk: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berzerk _

== Target Audience ==
Everyone... 8 to 80 years old.

== Competitive Products ==
Worms.

== Visual Style ==
Blobs is about thinking with abstract shapes and forces. There's nothing about it that needs to look realistic. It will have a simple and cartoony look and feel. Although the game is turn-based, we'd like to give a sense of motion and the forces involved, which we'll reflect with passive arrows and simple animated blobs. Simplicity is important, since ever-multiplying pieces will otherwise complicate the field of view.