#summary Charades Gameplay Report

== Charades Gameplay Report ==

John Morales

Our team’s Charades-playing experience was highlighted with some good laughs at each other’s acting and some confusion about the rules.  Personally, I had never played Charades before, so the session started with my group members filling me in as to the predefined game gestures, such as putting a hand to your ear for “sounds like”.  With the rules out of the way, the three of us were off, rotating between us the tasks of clue-writer, actor and guesser.  Play continued for quite a number of rounds as we progressively made the clues more challenging and slowly became more comfortable acting in the Borders’ coffee shop.  The clues started simply with words like “traffic” and “racecar”, but finished with more complex ideas such as “salvation” and “loft apartment”.  Overall, each of us faired well as both actor and guesser while only being completely stumped a couple times.

My least favorite part of the game was the time invested in familiarizing myself with the gestures and general rules, which seemed arbitrary but I guess are standard.  Fortunately the gestures were easy enough to pick up, but more than once there was discussion of what constituted breaking a “rule”.  Things like, for example, not using items around you as props, or not being able to point, or not making any type of sound, often caused a break in game play to further define the rule in question.  This rule confusion was common amongst all the players and interrupted the game experience.

Based upon Charades’ rule ambiguity, I am looking favorably at our game design’s simple and strictly-defined rule structure.  Since our game is slated to be a digital strategy puzzle game, the rules will likely be both simple to comprehend and precise.  This should help make the game run more smoothly and easier to learn.

There are two nice features of Charades that I believe will be put to good use in our game design.  The first feature is that the Charades is very lightweight, requiring only pen and paper to play.  Our puzzle game will likewise benefit from a quick sit-and-go format.  The other nice feature of Charades is being multiplayer.  Interactive games with another person seem to offer more laughs and ultimately more enjoyment than playing against an algorithm.  Accordingly, the game we’re designing is planned to be multiplayer with possibly one or more players per game.