#labels GrandTheftAutoSanAndreasGameplayReport
===Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas Gameplay Report ===

Eugene Kozhukalo 
ek2301@columbia.edu 


The Grand Theft Auto series are probably some of the most controversial video games ever released.  They allow the player to do pretty much everything that society frowns upon - beat people up, steal their money, murder them, and of course, steal their cars.  GTA: San Andreas is the latest installment in the series.  I have played it for two hours, and while I am not proud of the heinous acts I committed, I must admit I was extremely entertained.  I finished 4 or 5 missions, but I also spent a lot of time just exploring the huge game world in a variety of vehicles.  The first mission took me the most time to finish.  I had to escape on bicycle from a carful of angry pink-clad gang members hanging out of windows and shooting off small caliber semi-automatic weapons.  After several attempts I learned that a bicycle cannot outrun a car in this game.  On my next attempt I ditched the bicycle and stole a car to even the odds a little bit.  However, the game insisted on me making my escape using a bicycle.  I thought perhaps I could lure the chasing car away from the bicycle, lose them, and then get back to the bicycle to finish the mission.  While trying to execute my new plan, I got lucky and drove to another gang's territory, which was apparently friendly to me but not to my pursuers.  They started shooting at the car chasing me, while I got out of my car and waited it out in someone's backyard, where the enemy car couldn't drive.  I was somewhat disappointed that the enemy NPCs were not smart enough to get out of the car and chase me on foot.  After a few minutes I heard an explosion, which was the enemy car.  I was then able to return to the bicycle and finish the mission.  The next few missions involved spray-painting graffiti, beating up crack dealers (the most "righteous" thing I have done in my experience with this game), and driving my own group of gun-toting gangsters in pursuit of another car of a rival gang.  They were all entertaining, and somewhat easy to accomplish.

My favorite moment was definitely when I passed the first mission.  It gave a strong sense of accomplishment to finish the mission in a way other than the straightforward one.  I was pleasantly surprised that I was free to do whatever I wanted, that I wasn't "glued" to the bicycle trying to outrun a car.  The game did warn me about the conditions necessary for mission completion, but it did not unnecessarily restrict me.  I liked the realism of being able to do pretty much anything that is possible within the game world to accomplish my objective.

I was positively inspired by the sense of life and realism in the game world.  The attention to detail was truly astounding, both graphically and gameplay-wise.  For example, there were day and night cycles, weather effects such as rain, wind, thunderstorms, and intense heat that was represented by a slight distortion of the view, similar to how hot air is visible rising from hot asphalt or a car hood.  When I left the city and went to the countryside, I could see the huge buildings that made up the skyline - and they were real game objects I could drive to, not a static backdrop that many games revert to.  I think there is more than one city in the game as well, but I needed to finish more missions to unlock entry to the other ones.  The voice acting was realistic, and while the dialogue was very explicit, it was not to the point of silliness, and contributed to the game atmosphere.  I could go into various fast food places to eat, buy clothes at a store, and get haircuts at a barber shop.  When I stole a taxi, I was give a choice to play a taxi driver.  I'm sure there are many more ways to interact with the game world besides what the missions dictated.  This kind of open-ended, interactive game that offers a lot of freedom to the player is the kind of game I would like to design/develop, either in this course, or at any other point in my career.

One game mechanic I would borrow from this game is the lack of restriction on the player's actions.  In our project, I would attempt to only provide warnings or tips on conditions necessary to accomplish goals within the game, but leave the player to devise their own methods according to the rules of the game.  Many strategy games do that by default, but they rarely remove all restrictions (for example, not all units may be available to the player, or there might be a resource cap).  I would attempt to have as few such restrictions as possible without unbalancing the game, which I believe would be useful in making the game more realistic and engaging.