#summary Half Life 2 Gameplay Report

== Half Life 2 Gameplay Report ==

John Morales

Playing Valve’s Half Life 2 was an impressive experience over other first-person shooters I’ve played before.  It began by first downloading the 750+ MB demo from online and from there, registering a new username and password and providing my email address to the game’s manage system, “Steam”, before I was ready to play.  The demo consists of two “Chapters” (game levels), which I played through from start to finish.  Surprisingly, each level was quite different from the other.  The first was a mostly open and bright area that actually had no gunplay or “enemies” whatsoever.  Instead, the level’s focus seemed to be on showcasing the game’s excellent use of physics; practically all of the virtual world’s objects are interactive and their behaviors are modeled with extreme accuracy to real life.  For example, bottles and boxes shatter with realistic motion into conceivably sized pieces, and the remaining pieces can picked up, too.  A few brief challenges of picking things up within the script serve to highlight the depth of the physics accuracy throughout the level.  On the other hand, the second level starts the player off with a variety of weapons and on closed-off, menacing terrain.  Here the use of gravity and physics to complement the game play continues, but the theme is darker and more typical of a FPS.

The best aspect of the game was arguably not the physics engine itself, but how well the weapons and levels combined with the engine to complement the whole player experience.  Compared to some games where a breakthrough is just another notch shading detail, the Half Life 2 game designers seemed to take extra care not to simply improve some features and smash them together.  The result is that Half Life 2 can offer such a variety of game play style between the two levels.

Regretfully, the game does have one serious drawback in particular that I hope to leave out for our game—one which I’ll admit ahead of time is a personal pet peeve of mine.  Nevertheless, I find it a misery to be required to submit my personal information and register for any kind of game management service like Steam, even if the info required is just an email address.  Jumping through hoops before being able to do something as benign as play a video game is, to me, going overboard, and in this regard, it comes as no surprise to learn that Valve was started for former Microsoft employees.  I understand the intent of such hoops, namely to help thwart software piracy, but I absolutely detest badgering the legitimate majority of users to combat a miniscule fraction.  This will stop me from buying this product out of principle alone.  Thankfully, our game design will not be incorporating such “hate the customer” technology.
 
Digressing from the rant, our tentative design of a puzzle game almost seems too completely opposite from this graphics-rich first-person shooter to suggest a mechanic we would wish to borrow, but there are still a couple aspects to consider.  At the lowest level, I think it would be good to borrow the wide variety of play environments and psychological modes that Half Life 2 offers, from relaxed and bright to tight and on edge.  Offering some range of play modes seems to help any game remain fresh longer and Half Life 2’s seems to be no exception.  A way to include this in our puzzle game might be offer a variety of starting constraints or time restrictions.  The other game feature that might enhance our design would real-time game play instead of a typical turn-based puzzle game.  With Half Life 2 and in general, real-time interaction feels much more immerse than a quid pro quo system.