#summary Loop Game Report

I went to play the game, but I had to install shockwave first. I started to go through the tutorial, but bailed out after a couple of screens. I started to play the actual game which consists of catching butterflies of the same color that move around the screen by drawing a loop around them. Once I drew a loop around butterflies of mixed colors and lost oihnts so I learned you can only hazve one color of butterfly in the net. There are levels and at the start of each level it tells you how many points you need to finish to level. I learned that the level ends when you exceed the point limit, but if you get more points than you need on the last catch, you can get extra points (eg: 11 points on a 10 point level). HOW DID IT END?

Initially it was sort of awkward to draw the loops. I'm a righty but I mouse left because of my RSI and I'm not as good yet as I am with my right hand. But after a couple of rounds I started getting used to it and it became more "fun".

I got annoyed when I lost 20 points for catching 2 colors of butterflies. I hadn't yet seen it say anywhere that I shouldn't do that so it seemed unfair. Also the font that it said it in was big and red and seemed angry.

I think the most important inspiration/mechanic I draw from Loop is that our game doesn't have to be complicated to be enjoyable. Loop is the simplest of games but still provides a good time. I don't know if simple games can be interesting, but I guess games don't have to be interesting to be good.
 