#summary Playtest report of r423

Daniel Benamy and a friend (male, 20s)
Revision 423

Filed bugs for technical problems.
Updated help to incorporate some of the feedback which I removed from here.
Other feedback below

---------------------------------------

Dan: you should knokw that forces (pushing and pulling) are pretty much useless right now and that slippey and death ray don't work yet
Dan: also, when you select a blob and move the mouse around, the number by the cursor tell you how many action points it will cost to move there
Dan: after you've picked some moves, click done
Dan: if you want to start over, click clear queue

Friend: yea, what does force mean?
Dan: you push or pull nearby blobs. whether you push or pull depends on the blob you selected- blue it push, red is pull. but forces are very weak right now.

Friend: what are the objects in the center?
Dan: the anchor (top thing) prevents a blob covering it from being moved by forces
Dan: the middle one is an enery point which gives you an extra action point while you're on it
Dan: the bottom one is a hole (like exploding blobs create). blobs that move over it die.

Friend: what does rotating do?
Dan: if death ray worked, it would come out in the direction you're facing

Friend: what the hell is going on?
Dan: oh yeah. your blobs can kill each other

Friend: you need to explain this shit a lot more thoroughly
Dan: ok
Dan: that blobs take damage?
Friend: youre honestly asking me?
Dan: lol
Dan: i guess the help doesn't talk about blobs colliding huh
Friend: and the fact that you need to be a higher point value to kill one

Friend: force doesnt do anything either?
Dan: it does, just very weakly
Dan: we need to make it stronger

Friend: what just happened to your other dudes
Dan: they grew into each other and died :-)

Friend: im clueless
Friend: im trying all this different shit and the same shit keeps happening
Friend: i.e. i keep dying
Dan: there's definitely a limited set of options at this point
Dan: also keep in mind that i've played a few times before
Friend: yea but nothing is working for me

Dan: this is really very early on
Friend: it better be, this is embarrassing

Dan: ahh, don't fall in!
Friend: i was trying to see if i would
Dan: a little more and you will

Friend: i tried to fill it
Dan: i guess that needs work too
Dan: but you had the right idea

Dan: what the hell was that?
Dan: how'd you do that?
Friend: i moved my dude to the center of your four and then forced
Dan: bizarre
Dan: he like flew off the side of the board

It's boring waiting for players. Need time limit or to see what they're doing or something.

Friend: i didnt realize you gain points by moving
Dan: all blobs grow at the end of each turn
Dan: it doesn't matter if you move
Friend: oh

Dan: i think explosions are broken
Dan: but they're not big enough

Friend: what the fuck
Friend: it ignores my moves man

Friend: you should be able to choose the sequence of actions

Friend: and in some situations, it takes the points off for moves but doesnt make the,
Friend: i cant really figure in what situations

Friend: ita a cool concept though
Dan: glad you think so

Friend: and also, i tried to split the same piece twice in the same turn and it took the points but only slpit it once
Friend: so for things like that, maybe you should have a "you cant do that' notification

Friend: and the objects in the middle dont seem to work
Friend: unless im mistaken